Hi and welcome to chapter eighteen point three where we're going to build a deep surveillance facial
monitoring system that combines emotion age and gender recognition.
So now let's go into an update on that book and our virtual machine and start building this.
OK.
So we're in chapter 18.
No footnote but book for this.
But is no 18.00 Reiffel notebook file whereas it is actually in here into to make it to quickly into
the age gender estimation for the hill.
All right.
So click it.
And what this is this is basically a guitar project I pulled it for one of the best one of the better
ones I should say for age and gender detection.
And the reason why I don't get it is for this code and what we're going to do we're going to use his
Pretorian model is mainly because it's this data set and it's.
It's not loaded here.
I hope it always will be taken up way too much space probably isn't.
But it's still said that he create He loaded he turned it on is quite large and I actually did have
a project prior to this where we were treating it on that dataset for age and stuff stop it's OK for
age and that's why.
OK.
In fact the dataset is here is not good at all.
All right.
So I'm going to leave that before I give it to you guys.
All right back to this.
OK.
So either way when you're trying this model you actually can train his on his model here.
All right.
He has the code to train.
However it is not quick and it is basically a standard training procedure.
What we have done before but it is not worth the effort to do in a CPE use system.
So I said you know what we will just actually just use our Pretorian models and we will just Pretorian
model and it's a good exercise to basically executing someone else's model is actually it may seem like
cheating sometimes but you can learn a lot.
All right.
So I'll quickly.
This is his project here.
Let's bring this up.
All right.
First what are we going to do is basically because he has some of the books he should actually label
what our minds are.
So student quickly.
All right.
So this is going to be eighteen point tree it's called us.
And second one we're going to run right after.
So we combine them both because firstly what we're going to run is his age and gender detector and Despard
be eighteen point tree.
B look at.
So now let's bring this up.
Stick a look at this.
Right.
So this is what I think I wanted.
This was his get help for his project.
OK.
Now I believe this was him.
If I'm not mistaken there was a slight issue with his project that didn't run off the bat and I had
to make some changes in the file.
Luckily I did make the changes in the file.
So if you you don't have to put this code from scratch his code is already in this field that we saw
here.
So basically he what's good about this still is that he does give some instructions some if you wanted
to actually train the model on you and he can trance on different data sets as well.
This is that is that he included in his file.
You can train Athill or you can use some of his demo file is the file we are actually going to.
That's the way it's open.
And you can see it here.
We don't want to doing it because I already have downloaded it and basically have been trapped under
I MVB basically this.
I am D-B data here talks about here.
Basically someone's script I am divvies Web site you know Internet Movie Database website extracted
defaces and actually labeled the ages and gender which might have been a quite tedious task but they
did it.
OK.
So these are his results here.
His Pretorian model is lost is quite low for age and gender.
Not that low in the end.
But it's fine.
And so he probably stopped at some pre-trained really something and got the Marlow's out before accuracy
and the stuff went to hell.
Actually I'm looking at around accuracy.
This is a one blue green and blue.
Like I said fine either way.
Definitely we're sitting here
actually is not fitting that is actually on his training data set.
So this kind of results to be fair.
All right.
Either way it worked fine.
And as an exercise for you guys if you're very if you're interested in seeing how this works his code
is here.
It's fairly well documented as well.
So you can take a look and try doing some cool stuff with this what we're doing now is using his preaching
model.
So basically extracted the code from his project code is code and doing it here and I it in the book.
So let's step through this code quickly it's not that different than the previous code just some little
things you should note.
Firstly this is how we load his model and we have to specify a hash when we look at his model.
So go back to our face detector results.
This is what gives us our faces.
And this is what displays our results actually.
Let me just check something.
I don't believe I'm using that function any more.
And I am right I am not using it anymore.
So that's to it on.
Totally unnecessary.
All right.
So now these are the moral premises here.
OK.
Just say no.
Can I leave this alone ok dept OK.
With none is all the specific specifications for loading his model.
OK.
His pre-trained weights.
So we do that so we have his model we loaded it we got the weights and everything from his model and
each the EF 5 format.
So no set up stuff.
We get his model.
Fitbit does or does not go with his model here and model that load.
So we get his model now officially.
All right.
So we initialize a webcam here.
Standard stuff we said is if you've seen before we get this.
Now what I've done I've made some changes to this code because the previous code didn't tell you.
But if a second person appeared in the diagram it would only show one if you guys are the time it doesn't
show more than one face.
Oh it may have him trash.
I'm not even sure you can do it.
Bring a friend.
OK.
I have no friends with me right right now the wife is out.
So I can't test that.
But that's OK.
So this is how actually got it to work with multiple faces.
So we do this here.
Basically we append the faces we extract here and then what we do we use his model that we loaded here
to make a prediction and this prediction gives us two things.
Gender first very male female.
I know there are many agendas right now but for now is history in the male and female because the genders
will still look like male or female either way.
So that's fine.
All right.
And so we have predicted ages here as well.
And this is all in a bit of a funny shape here.
So he does some reshipping.
All right.
And flattens it.
And then we get the results here.
So we get the predicted ages and this is good.
All right.
So we get it.
No no what we're going to do since we have multiple we possibly have multiple cases in this file is
that we go through defaces and go through the results and display the results later on here.
OK.
And that is it.
This is what runs forward.
Age and gender.
So let's give it a try.
Slutting probably a learning model.
There we go.
So that is pretty awesome.
All right what I'm going to do going to bring up a picture of my funny face and try to simulate this
with another person or a pretend person we're going to use
I guess is actually hard and I taught
it.
So my friend here she has some good face pictures.
I hope she's OK with me using this right.
OK so I'm going to bring this up here.
OK.
So this is me this is my friend is not detecting.
Oh there we go.
Thinks she's a guy.
I have no idea.
She doesn't need any of this.
And so I think she's a guy.
Now there's a problem here and I hope you can see it.
And I did actually see it in the code and didn't mention it to you guys because I was like wondering
how it doesn't work the way it does supposed to doesn't it.
And that's because exactly as I said it will detect the faces here but it only draws results for one
prediction here because it's not a pending results results.
In theory this is something I fix later on.
By the way so for now though just be aware.
At this age and gender detector only technically detects one face at a time not two.
And basically this is something I also noted here.
If you get this early.
This is the area you'll see here faces not being detected.
It's because your webcam has not been turned on.
So basically if this happened this happens just go to devices and webcams and tick tick tick off.
OK.
So that is that.
And if whatever reason this program crashes when you're messing with the code and the webcam isn't released
that will happen quite often I'm sure just run this line separately to reclaim your webcam so that you
can re-initialize it again later on.
OK.
So no that was age and gender and a Eating point tree.
Now let's do.
Age and gender with emotions.
That's the cool part.
That's deep surveillance partner.
So again let's load all of this 10 seconds wasted of my life again.
Yoga seemed faster this time maybe me complain.
OK.
So no this is testing emotion agent and using a webcam.
Now I'm not going to go through this code in super detail because it is a bit messy.
However what I'm going to tell you is that I have manipulated this code to support two faces.
All right.
So let's give this ago.
Bring up my friend's Instagram picture again
OK.
So we got an error.
Color is not defined.
Like I'm going to pause this and see what is happening here.
I know exactly what's happening.
I was trying to do some color manipulation before.
OK.
CBG are Spudis get back green OK.
It is going to.
Oh dammit what happened is that it claimed my webcam.
It's not going to get an image.
So what we can do as I mentioned before and I did not put it in this file accessible area just put a
cell below and reclean my webcam so I can run this finally again
I attempted it.
There we go.
So yeah I'm not actually sad.
I don't know why it's tinks I'm sad no neutral.
And bring up the multiple face Gladys's Merde is confusing.
At still in.
Why I doing a in front of me.
All right.
Come on detect
get a brief second.
But let me just bring this.
This is much easier when you actually have a real person next to you.
OK.
I'm going to pause this and get a better picture.
No offense.
This picture has not been affected.
OK.
So hold one second because the recording that really put it on as fast forward this bit while I just
waste time like.
All right.
So I found a picture of my wife I may use from a Facebook profile maybe I should use like stock images.
It seems like these images don't have the best luck but we'll never know.
All right.
So let's put it in front here.
I just saw a detective come back from back in says I actually thought it looks because now I can see
my screen.
And I can see my face and it's not detecting my face.
Maybe I should just bring this back slightly.
There we go.
OK.
So I know my wife is going to be happy with this but I think she's a guy who is 24 years old.
Probably because it's from a cell phone and the skill is definitely going to be off because of it.
I'm 28 when I'm 24.
Damn you.
Sorry to deduct it.
OK.
When it starts kind of to kind of going to hold.
All right so what this means here is that this code works.
It's not exactly 100 percent accurate with gender detection as we can see but that probably has to do
with my little fake friends.
I'm using my cell phone.
These people are REAL by the way.
But either way this should not happen that way but it works it works.
It's good that is directing multiple pictures multiple people.
All right.
So this is good.
Let's move on to the next one images so let's run this
OK so now let's run this test on images.
OK.
You did not load anything in my bed
not that or
OK.
So let's test this on some test images and you can place those images in the images folder.
Will show you here.
OK.
So let's look at Donald Trump oh this is quite funny.
I think it's a female 59 looks much older in my opinion but fifty nine and said It's me again.
I did some extra years to me because I'm actually actually 24.
But fair enough.
All right.
Queen Elizabeth and something funny is happening.
It actually thinks this bouquet of roses is a guy who took the ideas off.
Clearly this is a bad example of Mitt not working too well.
But there's a reason for that.
I'll tell you afterwards.
OK.
Barack Obama.
Male angry to the one not the best.
Is my wife.
Female tity she actually was tastiness Richardsons quite good and she was definitely happy here.
All right.
She was actually this was the two days of the pictures were two days apart.
So she aged a year in those two days.
OK.
So that's cool.
Now I said I'll tell you why.
That's because when we were doing this here we were basically Horncastle pacifies don't crop enough
of the face out even with the default settings here which are removed because you may have seen it in
a court because it just cut and paste some of these images discotheques or videos before we actually
had some cropping being done.
And I took it out because it was less accurate.
But now anyway so you libs facial recognition.
Let's give this a try.
Let's quickly run this
and I'll tell you about dealing with starting in the back row here.
I'll tell you about dealer dealer.
It is it's a machine learning basically package that was built in C++ and you can use it into Python
and it does a bunch of cool stuff.
And what I'm using it here for is for phase detection but it actually can do facial recognition.
In my open C-v course in the past I haven't included in discourse.
You actually do use Nonpoint recognition on faces for some cool projects like your detection and the
swaps as well more advanced with swaps.
All right.
So I'm sorry I'm retarded.
We are using the live on images here.
I really should label this that I think in the last section used to live on the webcam.
Yes.
OK.
So again.
So it actually is.
Now a trump he actually aged two years less fend off me.
Oh.
You know when you're younger.
That's good.
Fifty four female OK.
Fair enough.
She has a lot.
In that picture.
That's fine.
Tony correct.
Barack Obama 45 I think he was in his late 40s and this picture may be very very accurate actually is
quite close.
And my wife she would not be happy with each year but it's fair enough again because she was Tuti in
those pictures.
OK but fair enough.
So you can experiment with some different things.
You know it's not going to be perfect.
Age is actually a very hard thing to guess.
I myself sometimes have thought someone was to be in it today 25 or 26 and I learned later they were
like 50 which was embarrassing but they were very happy about my mis take.
So anyway we can run this with the lab using the webcam so I'm going on this.
And I've changed my T-shirt by the way back to the one with stain unfortunately.
Hope it isn't picked up in this camera.
No it does not.
And the bedroom doesn't open.
Yeah it's fine.
So again this is quite cool.
You can definitely see dealer has a slew of film right here OK.
And literally did my hair thing five seconds 10 seconds before.
OK.
So close.
So the advantage of the lid though is that it is better at picking up faces.
One thing you should have noted noted here is that it didn't mystic Queen Elizabeth's bouquet for a
face like what a hawk husky classified did.
So you can generally see that as better and more robust.
Remember for Cutie Caskie classifies it or this was a face that it was a guy which I would think it
was a female.
Either way if it was a face that is.
But that's fine.
So what I'm saying Bakassi cast philosophise a definitely faster.
So if speed is your concern or if your hardware if it's an embedded system you can use Hawkhurst justifies
and maybe tweak some of the parameters like this scaling parameters especially this definitely helps.
But these settings are generally well understood as the gold standard Woodhall Cascades like this is
the best depending on your application.
But generally this is the best.
So a dealer may be more suited for some applications if its accuracy especially is of importance.
OK so that's it for this chapter.
I hope you enjoyed it and I hope you build something cool out of this and I hope you expand upon it
too.
You can actually take this code now and train and train over these models or add in some new stuff as
well.
And ethnicity as well.
You can actually now take some of this data sets here like this one for one and maybe you can if you
can find like a label that you can manually label the agenda from this as well to get even more accurate
gender recognition.
So this is pretty cool.
And the challenge and in bringing both of these together which I probably failed to mention is that
they're both taking different sized faces to boot.
One is ticking and ticking in a color image.
That's the age and gender sticking.
Taking in a color image that's 64 by 64 whereas the other one which is all in motion detectors ticking
in a smaller and gray scale image.
So you have to sort of do some a little more processing here in our pipeline.
And basically then you have to get the results and make sure they're lined up like the same face is
tied together with his agent and the emotion which is fairly easy anyway and then plus and take it correctly
and then making sure the labels follow the face around the image.
So it was a fun piece of code to build.
To be fair.
But.